p8105_hw2_at3343.md, before:

Homework 2
================
Alice Tivarovsky
9/26/2019

# Problem 1

We are reading in the Mr. Trash Wheel dataset, stored as an excel file.

``` r
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)

library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ──────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.2.1 ──

    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.2.1     ✔ purrr   0.3.2
    ## ✔ tibble  2.1.3     ✔ dplyr   0.8.3
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.0.0     ✔ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✔ readr   1.3.1     ✔ forcats 0.4.0

    ## ── Conflicts ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(readxl)

mr_trash_data = read_excel("../data/mr_trash_dataset.xlsx")
```

    ## New names:
    ## * `` -> ...15

``` r
mr_trash_data = janitor::clean_names(mr_trash_data)
```

The “raw” dataframe contains 336 entries and 15 columns. Now we want to
remove the last column, which contains notes, and remove any rows that
have dumpster = NA.

``` r
# Removing last column of comments
mr_trash_data = select(mr_trash_data, -x15)

# Removing rows with "NA" for dumpster
mr_trash_data = drop_na(mr_trash_data, dumpster)
```

Commit message:

renamed dataframes, converted column sports_balls to integer vector rounded to nearest whole number

p8105_hw2_at3343.md, after:

Homework 2
================
Alice Tivarovsky
9/26/2019

# Problem 1

We are reading in the Mr. Trash Wheel dataset, stored as an excel file.
We will also remove the last column, which contains notes.

``` r
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)

library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ──────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.2.1 ──

    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.2.1     ✔ purrr   0.3.2
    ## ✔ tibble  2.1.3     ✔ dplyr   0.8.3
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.0.0     ✔ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✔ readr   1.3.1     ✔ forcats 0.4.0

    ## ── Conflicts ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(readxl)

mr_trash_data = read_excel("../data/mr_trash_dataset.xlsx")
```

    ## New names:
    ## * `` -> ...15

``` r
mr_trash_data = janitor::clean_names(mr_trash_data)

# Removing last column of comments
mr_trash_data = select(mr_trash_data, -x15)
```

The “raw” dataframe contains 336 entries and 15 columns.

We will now remove any rows that have dumpster = NA and convert the
column “sports\_balls” to an integer vector rounded to the nearest whole
number.

``` r
# Removing rows with "NA" for dumpster
mr_trash_data = drop_na(mr_trash_data, dumpster)

# Rounding sports_balls to nearest integer
mr_trash_data = mutate(mr_trash_data, sports_balls = round(as.integer(sports_balls, digits = 0)))
```
